>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SUNDAY, JULY 12...
ARE NEGOTIATORS ON THE VERGE OF
ANNOUNCING A LANDMARK DEAL ON
IRAN'S NUCLEAR PROGRAM?
GREECE'S FINANCIAL FUTURE STILL
IN DOUBT.
AND THE FIGHT TO KEEP SOMALIA'S
YOUTH FROM FLEEING THE
COUNTRY...
>> Reporter: "DON'T LEAVE.
STAY HERE," HE TELLS THEM.
IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS, ALMOST
900 KIDS FROM THIS SCHOOL ALONE
HAVE FLED FOR EUROPE.
>> Sreenivasan: NEXT ON PBS
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
>>FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS
IN LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING,
AND THANKS FOR JOINING US.
WE START WHERE WE HAVE FOR WHAT
SEEMS THE PAST TWO WEEKS NOW,
CLOSER AND CLOSER TO A HISTORIC
DEAL BETWEEN IRAN AND SEVERAL
NATIONS ABOUT LIMITING THEIR
NUCLEAR PROGRAM IN EXCHANGE FOR
A LIFTING OF ECONOMIC SANCTIONS-
- AT ONE POINT TODAY, WORD THAT
A DEAL COULD BE ON THE TABLE AS
EARLY AS TOMORROW.
HERE WAS AN OPTIMISTIC SECRETARY
OF STATE KERRY THIS MORNING.
>> A VERY GOOD MEETING.
VERY POSITIVE.
I THINK WE ARE GETTING TO SOME
REAL DECISIONS.
SO, I WILL SAY, BECAUSE WE HAVE
A FEW TOUGH THINGS TO DO, I
REMAIN HOPEFUL.
>> Sreenivasan: BUT LATER IN THE
DAY, IRANIAN FOREIGN MINISTER
JAVAD ZARIF STOOD ON HIS BALCONY
AND TOLD PRESS THERE WAS MORE
WORK TO BE DONE TOMORROW, AND
THAT A DEAL WOULD NOT BE
FINISHED TODAY.
THE AGREEMENT WOULD BE A
CULMINATION OF MORE THAN A
DECADE OF TALKS TO ALLOW U.N.
WEAPONS INSPECTIONS.
EVEN IF A DEAL IS REACHED, THE
GOVERNMENTS OF BRITAIN, FRANCE,
GERMANY, RUSSIA AND CHINA AND
THE U.S. HAVE TO APPROVE.
THAT COULD BE A PROBLEM
ACCORDING TO SENATE MAJORITY
LEADER MITCH MCCONNELL.
>> WE ALREADY KNOW THAT IT'S
GOING TO LEAVE IRAN AS A
THRESHOLD NUCLEAR STATE.
WE KNOW THAT.
IT APPEARS AS IF THE
ADMINISTRATION'S APPROACH TO
THIS WAS TO REACH WHATEVER
AGREEMENT THE IRANIANS WERE
WILLING TO ENTER INTO.
SO, I THINK IT'S GOING TO BE A
VERY HARD SELL, IF IT'S
COMPLETED, IN CONGRESS.
>> Sreenivasan: ISRAELI PRIME
MINISTER NETANYAHU IS GOING A
STEP FURTHER, DENOUNCING ANY
DEAL WITH IRAN.
>> (translated): THIS
AGREEMENT IS PUTTING AT RISK THE
PEACE OF THE WORLD.
IRAN DOESN'T HIDE ITS INTENTION
TO CONTINUE ITS MURDEROUS
AGGRESSION, EVEN AGAINST THOSE
WHO THEY ARE IN NEGOTIATIONS
WITH.
MAYBE THERE IS SOMEONE AMONG THE
POWERS WHO IS WILLING TO GIVE
WAY TO THE REALITY DICTATED BY
IRAN, WHICH INCLUDES THE
RELENTLESS CALLS FOR THE
DESTRUCTION OF ISRAEL.
WE WILL NOT ACCEPT IT.
>> Sreenivasan: BLOOMBERG NEWS
REPORTER INDIRA LAKSHMANAN JOINS
US NOW FROM VIENNA WHERE SHE'S
BEEN COVERING THE TALKS FOR
WEEKS.
WE'VE GOT TO STOP MEETING LIKE
THIS.
ASK YOU ALMOST THE SAME
QUESTION.
HOW CLOSE ARE WE TO A DEAL AND
WHAT'S HAPPENING TONIGHT?
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, OHARI, IT HAS
BEEN 16 DAYS OF TOP LEVEL TALKS,
IT'S A RECORD.
THESE TALKS HAVE GONE ON, NOT
EVEN THIS LONG AT CAMP DAVID.
A DEAL IS AROUND THE CORNER,
WE'RE ALMOST THERE, ALMOST
THERE, AND AT THIS POINT I THEY
WE MAY REALLY ALMOST BE THERE.
THEY'VE MISSED THREE DEADLINES
ALREADY, THE NEXT DEADLINE IS
LOOMING.
THEY'VE GIVEN THEMSELVES UNTIL
MONDAY TO FINALIZE THE TEXT OF A
DEAL WHICH WE'RE BEING TOLD IS
NOW NEAR 100 PAGES BETWEEN THE
TEXT AND FIVE ANNEXES AND WHAT
WE ARE BEING TOLD IS THAT THE
MAJOR POLITICAL DECISIONS HAVE
BEEN MADE BUT THE WRITING THE
LEGAL WORK THE TECHNICALITIES
STILL HAVE TO BE WRAPPED UP AND
OF COURSE CAPITALS HAVE TO SIGN
OFF ON THAT SO WE THINK THAT'S
GOING TO BE HAPPENING OVERNIGHT
WITH A POSSIBLE ANNOUNCEMENT
TOMORROW IF ALL THE Ts GET
CROSSED AND THE Is GET DOTTED.
>> THE ARMS EMBARGO WHAT
HAPPENED TO THAT?
>> I WAS TOLD THAT THIS ISSUE
HAS BEEN RESOLVED.
THAT HAS BEEN A MAJOR ISSUE FOR
IS IRANIANS THE RUSSIANS AND THE
AMERICANS.
THE IRANIANS AND THE RUSSIANS
WANTED THE ARMS EMBARGO LIFTED
BECAUSE RUSSIA IS READY TO SELL
WEAPON SYSTEMS INCLUDING
DEFENSIVE WEAPON SYSTEMS LIKE
THE S-300 TO IRAN AND THE U.S.
OF COURSE FOR THEM THIS IS A
EXPLOSIVE ISSUE PARTICULARLY IN
THE U.S. CONGRESS IS GOING TO
MAKE IT HARD TO SELL THE DEAL.
BUT WHAT I'M TOLD THE EMBARGO A
COMPROMISE HAS BEEN COME UP WITH
AND THERE IS AN AGREEMENT THAT
THE U.N. ARMS EMBARGO NOT THE
UNITED STATES ONE, WILL BE
LIFTED NOT IMMEDIATELY BUT OVER
TIME.
>> YOU MENTIONED APPROVALS
AROUND THE COUNTRY, MICHIGAN
McCONNELL SAYS IT'S A -- MITCH
McCONNELL SAYS IT WILL BE A
TOUGH SELL.
>> THIS HAS BEEN A TALKING POUND
ALL ALONG.
DIDN'T WANT ANY DEAL THAT WOULD
ALLOWS IRAN WITH ENRICHMENT
CAPABILITY.
I THINK HAD A TALKING POINT GETS
STRONGER TO AN OFFICIAL DEAL
BEING DONE.
YOU'RE ABSOLUTELY RIGHT.
IT'S GOING TO BE A TOUGH SELL
AND UPHILL BATTLE IN CONGRESS.
WE ALSO HEARD TED CRUZ
SPECIFICALLY PICKING ON THE ARMS
EMBARGO AND SAYING IF THAT WAS
LIFTED THERE'S GOING TO BE A
MAJOR FIGHT ON CAPITOL HILL.
THE ADMINISTRATION WILL HAVE TO
COME BACK WITH WHAT THEY THINK
IS THE STRONGEST DEEM POSSIBLE
AND SELL THE AMERICAN PEOPLE AND
THE CONGRESS WHY THEY THINK
THERE STOPS IRAN ON ALL OF ITS
PATHS OF GETTING A NUCLEAR
WEAPON AND A GOOD DEAL FOR
SECURITY.
>> THERE'S ALSO MIXED MESSAGES
COMING OUT OF IRAN.
ON THE ONE HAND WE SEE
PREPARATIONS FOR A DEAL AND ON
THE OTHER HAND TOUGH TALK FROM
THE LEADERSHIP ABOUT UNITED
STATES AND ARROGANCE AND
CONTINUE TO FIGHT.
YEAH, YOU'RE ABSOLUTELY RIGHT.
LAST NIGHT THE SUPREME LEADER
AYATOLLAH KHAMENEI REFERRED TO
THE U.S. AND ARROGANCE.
IF THEY DIDN'T GET A DEAL THERE
WOULDN'T BE RAPPROCHEMENT FOR
THE UNITED STATES, THIS TALKING
POINT MATCHES IN SOME LEVEL WHAT
THE ITS HAS SAID IN A MUCH --
THE UNITED STATES HAS SAID IN A
MUCH MORE DIPLOMATIC WAY.
WE ALSO SAW HASAN ROUHANI
SAYING, THERE WILL BE A DIEHL,
IF THEY ARE NOT GOING TO GET A
DEAL, WE ARE ON THE END OF THE
WORST SHAGGY DOG STORY IN
HISTORY SINCE THIS HAS BEEN
GOING ON FOR QUITE SOME TIME.
>> BLOOM BERG
>> Sreenivasan: NEGOTIATORS MAY
BE MAKING PROGRESS OVER GREECE'S
GROWING ECONOMIC CRISIS.
THE E.U. CANCELLED ITS 28-NATION
SUMMIT SO HEADS OF STATE COULD
FOCUS ON GREECE.
THE GREEK PARLIAMENT BACKED A
DEAL OFFERING PAINFUL AUSTERITY
MEASURES IN EXCHANGE FOR DEBT
RELIEF AND A NEW, THREE-YEAR
BAILOUT WORTH TENS OF BILLIONS
OF EUROS.
BUT FINANCE MINISTERS SAY THEY
WANT MORE ASSURANCES FROM GREECE
AS THEY PRESENT THE LATEST
OPTIONS TO EUROZONE LEADERS.
>> (translated): THE DECISIVE
POINT IS THAT GREECE, STARTING
TOMORROW, MUST SHOW US THEY
AGREE WITH THE STATEMENT, THAT
THE PARLIAMENT AGREES, AND
FOLLOWING THAT THE MEASURES
SHOULD BE IMPLEMENTED THROUGH
PARLIAMENT IN THE NEXT FEW DAYS.
AND WHEN ALL THESE CONDITIONS
WILL BE FILLED, THEN WE CAN
START TALKS ON AN ADDITIONAL
PROGRAM.
BUT NOT BEFORE.
>> Sreenivasan: GREEK BANKS HAVE
BEEN CLOSED FOR TWO WEEKS.
IF THERE'S NO DEAL BEFORE THE
MARKETS OPEN TOMORROW, ANALYSTS
SAY THEY COULD RUN OUT OF CASH.
POPE FRANCIS ENDED HIS THREE-
NATION TOUR OF SOUTH AMERICA
TODAY, VISITING ONE OF
PARAGUAY'S MOST DESPERATE SLUMS.
VILLAGES IN ASUNCION, ALONG THE
PARAGUAY RIVER, HAVE BEEN
FLOODED COUNTLESS TIMES,
DEVASTATING TOWNS LIKE BANADO
NORTE.
THE POPE TOLD VILLAGERS THERE
THAT IT'S PEOPLE REMIND HIM OF
JESUS, MARY AND JOSEPH.
>> (translated): ALL YOU HAVE
FOUGHT TO HAVE A DIGNIFIED LIFE,
SHELTER.
EVERYTHING THAT YOU HAVE DONE TO
OVERCOME THE FLOODING OVER THE
LAST COUPLE OF WEEKS, ALL OF
THIS BRINGS TO MIND THE SMALL
FAMILY OF BELEN.
>> Sreenivasan: LATER, POPE
FRANCIS HELD HIS FAREWELL MASS
IN A SWAMPY FIELD NEARBY,
ENCOURAGING THE HUNDREDS OF
THOUSANDS OF ATTENDEES TO HELP
THE HUNGRY AND THE SICK.
THE N.A.A.C.P. IS ENDING ITS 15-
YEAR ECONOMIC BOYCOTT OF SOUTH
CAROLINA.
THE DECISION COMES AFTER THE
SOUTH CAROLINA LEGISLATURE VOTED
TO REMOVE THE CONFEDERATE FLAG
AND STATE TROOPERS REMOVED IT
FROM THE CAPITOL GROUNDS THIS
WEEK.
THE N.C.A.A. IS ALSO LIFTING ITS
BOYCOTT ON THE STATE, WHICH HAD
PREVENTED SOUTH CAROLINA FROM
HOSTING SPONSORED SPORTING
EVENTS SINCE 2002.
MEXICO'S TOP DRUG LORD, JOAQUIN
"EL CHAPO" GUZMAN, IS ON THE
LOOSE AFTER PULLING OFF AN
ELABORATE ESCAPE FROM A MAXIMUM
SECURITY PRISON.
HE SLIPPED THROUGH AN ESCAPE
HATCH IN A SHOWER AREA, DOWN A
LADDER AND INTO A MILE-LONG
TUNNEL, RIGGED WITH
SOPHISTICATED EQUIPMENT.
>> (translated): THE TUNNEL IS
EQUIPPED WITH PLASTIC PIPES,
PRESUMABLY FOR VENTILATION, AS
WELL AS LIGHTING AND A
MOTORCYCLE MOUNTED ON TRACKS TO
BE USED AS A TRACTION MECHANISM,
PROBABLY TO EXTRACT THE DIRT
FROM THE EXCAVATION, AND ALSO
USED TO MOVE TOOLS AND MACHINERY
FOR DRILLING.
>> Sreenivasan: THIS IS ACTUALLY
THE SECOND TIME GUZMAN HAS
ESCAPED A MAXIMUM SECURITY
PRISON.
HE ESCAPED FROM ANOTHER PRISON
IN 2001 AND WAS RECAPTURED IN
FEBRUARY OF LAST YEAR.
GUZMAN FACES MULTIPLE FEDERAL
DRUG TRAFFICKING INDICTMENTS IN
THE U.S. AND MEXICO.
HIS CARTEL IS HEAVILY INVOLVED
IN THE BLOODY DRUG WAR THAT HAS
TAKEN SOME 100,000 LIVES IN THE
LAST DECADE.
OFF THE COAST OF GREECE LATE
LAST NIGHT, THE COAST GUARD
RESCUED 117 MIGRANTS STRANDED AT
SEA.
EARLIER THIS WEEK, THE ITALIAN
COAST GUARD SAVED ANOTHER 1,600
MIGRANTS, SOME IN INFLATABLE
BOATS, MANY FLEEING WAR,
POVERTY, DISEASE AND OPPRESSION
IN AFRICA AND THE MIDDLE EAST.
THE U.N. SAYS 137,000 MIGRANTS
HAVE CROSSED THE MEDITERRANEAN,
BOUND FOR EUROPE IN JUST THE
FIRST SIX MONTHS OF THIS YEAR.
THAT'S 83% MORE THAN LAST YEAR.
JAMAL OSMAN OF ITN TRAVELED TO
THE TOWN OF HARGEISA IN NORTHERN
SOMALIA WHERE LOCALS ARE
DESPERATELY TRYING TO STOP THEIR
YOUTH FROM MAKING THE JOURNEY
AND BECOMING A LOST GENERATION.
>> Reporter: IT'S 8:00 IN THE
MORNING AND IT'S ASSEMBLY TIME
AT FARAH OMAAR SCHOOL IN
HARGEISA.
>> Reporter: HEAD TEACHER AHMED
ABDIRAHMAN IS DELIVERING HIS
USUAL SERMON TO THE STUDENTS.
"DON'T LEAVE, STAY HERE," HE
TELLS THEM.
HE IS FACING A REAL PROBLEM.
IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS, ALMOST
900 KIDS FROM THIS SCHOOL ALONE
HAVE FLED FOR EUROPE.
IT'S PLACES LIKE THIS THAT ARE
SUFFERING THE UNSEEN DAMAGE OF
THE MIGRANT EXODUS FROM AFRICA.
HARGEISA IS LOSING A GENERATION
OF YOUNG PEOPLE ON A PERILOUS
JOURNEY NORTH, AND IT'S HAVING A
DEVASTATING IMPACT ACROSS THE
COMMUNITY.
>> Reporter: AHMED KNOWS MOST OF
THE STUDENTS WANT TO LEAVE.
MANY OF THEM, LURED BY PROMISES
ON SOCIAL MEDIA OF A GLORIOUS
LIFE ABROAD, DON'T BELIEVE
HARGEISA HAS A FUTURE TO OFFER
THEM.
>> Reporter: HALWO'S CHILDREN GO
TO THIS SCHOOL.
SHE IS AT HER WITS END BECAUSE
HALF OF HER HOUSEHOLD HAS
ALREADY LEFT.
>> Reporter: HER SON HAD GOT AS
FAR AS LIBYA ON HIS WAY TO
EUROPE.
THEN, THE SMUGGLER CONTACTED HER
DEMANDING MORE MONEY.
HALWO REMEMBERS THE TERRIBLE
PHONE CALL TELLING HER HER SON
HADN'T MADE IT.
>> Reporter: HALWO REGULARLY
MEETS UP WITH OTHER PARENTS.
THEY SHARE THEIR STORIES AND
LAMENT WHAT'S FAST BECOMING A
LOST GENERATION.
THE OLD AND THE YOUNG RELY ON
EACH OTHER IN TURN.
IT'S THE BEDROCK OF SOMALI
SOCIETY AND THE DISAPPEARANCE OF
SO MUCH OF ITS YOUTH IS BECOMING
AN UNBEARABLE BURDEN ON THIS
TIGHT-KNIT COMMUNITY.
>> Reporter: ALL OVER THE
SCHOOL, THERE ARE MESSAGES
ENCOURAGING STUDENTS TO LEAVE
THE SCHOOL.
FOR EXAMPLE, THIS MESSAGE SAYS
OUR PROMISE IS TO EMIGRATE
ABROAD.
INDEED, MANY OF THE YOUTHS IN
HARGEISA HAVE MADE THEIR WAY TO
ITALY IN RECENT MONTHS.
THEY ARE SMUGGLED THROUGH
ETHIOPIA, SUDAN, AND LIBYA.
THE JOURNEY IS HARROWING.
ONCE THEY ARRIVE, THEIR DREAMS
OF A BEAUTIFUL CITY AND A
HAPPIER LIFE ARE SHORT LIVED.
HAMZA, A FORMER STUDENT AT THE
FARAH OMAAR SCHOOL HAS BEEN IN
MILAN FOR FOUR WEEKS.
HE IS SLEEPING ROUGH AND WISHES
HE NEVER CAME.
>> Reporter: BACK IN HARGEISA,
TEACHERS ARE TRYING TO FIGHT
BACK, TO FIND A WAY TO STOP THIS
MASS EXODUS.
THEY HAVE BEEN ENCOURAGING THE
KIDS TO ACT OUT THE DANGERS OF
HUMAN SMUGGLING TO DISCOURAGE
THEM FROM LEAVING.
ONE BOY PRETENDS TO BE A
SMUGGLER, BRANDISHING HIS
KALASHNIKOV MADE OF WOOD.
>> Reporter: THE SO-CALLED
SMUGGLER PRETENDS HE'S IN LIBYA
AND SPEAKS IN MADE-UP ARABIC.
>> (translated): HELLO,
SALAAM-ALAIKUM.
>> WA-ALAIKUM-AS-SALAAM.
(speaking gibberish)
>> Reporter: THE AUDIENCE FINDS
THE WHOLE THING QUITE FUNNY.
BUT THE MESSAGE IS SERIOUS.
>> Reporter: BUT AS LONG AS THE
DIVIDE BETWEEN AFRICA AND EUROPE
REMAINS, THIS MESSAGE WILL FALL
ON DEAF EARS.
EUROPEAN GOVERNMENTS ARE FACING
HUGE CHALLENGES IN DEALING WITH
MIGRATION, BUT THE PEOPLE OF
HARGEISA AND OTHER CITIES ACROSS
AFRICA HAVE THEIR OWN CRISES TO
OVERCOME.
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN A
GENERATION, THE ECONOMY IN
HARGEISA IS ON THE UP.
THERE ARE JOBS HERE FOR THOSE
WHO WANT THEM.
BUT THE FALSE PROSPECT OF AN
EASY LIFE IN EUROPE PROVES TOO
MUCH FOR MANY TO RESIST.
SOCIETY HERE IS BUILT ON FAMILY
AND CLAN TIES.
BUT WHEN ITS VERY BUILDING
BLOCKS ARE BEING LOST TO THE
PROMISE OF A BETTER LIFE ACROSS
THE OCEAN, THE CONTINUED
EXISTENCE OF THAT SOCIETY HANGS
IN THE BALANCE.
>> Sreenivasan: SEE HOW RATES OF
YOUTH UNEMPLOYMENT COMPARE
ACROSS THE GLOBE.
VIEW OUR INTERACTIVE MAP ONLINE
AT PBS.ORG/NEWSHOUR.
THIS WEEK, ISIS FIGHTERS HAVE
LAUNCHED ATTACKS ACROSS THE
MIDDLE EAST.
JUST YESTERDAY, ISIS CLAIMED
RESPONSIBILITY FOR EXPLODING A
CAR BOMB OUTSIDE THE ITALIAN
CONSULATE IN CAIRO, KILLING ONE
PERSON.
ALSO, A SYRIAN HUMAN RIGHTS
GROUP IS REPORTING THAT
MILITANTS LAUNCHED TWO NEW
OFFENSIVES IN NORTHERN SYRIA
THURSDAY, DETONATING LARGE BOMBS
IN THE BORDER TOWN OF KOBANI.
ALL OF THIS VIOLENCE COMES
DURING THE MUSLIM HOLY MONTH OF
RAMADAN.
WHILE ISIS IS KILLING CIVILIANS,
IT'S ALSO HELPING CIVILIANS AT
THE SAME TIME.
ASSOCIATED PRESS REPORTER BASSEM
MROUE JOINS ME NOW WITH MORE OF
THIS MIX OF BRUTALITY AND
CHARITY.
>> JOINS ME VIA SKYPE FROM
BEIRUT.
ONE OF THE THINGS WE'RE ALL
AWARE OF DURING THE MUSLIM MONTH
OF RAMADAN IS THE EXIST ON
CHARITY.
HOW IS I.S.I.S. DOING THIS?
>> I.S.I.S. IS TRYING TO WIN THE
HEARTS OF THOSE WHO LIVE UNDER
ITS CONTROL.
AREAS OF I.S.I.S. AND SYRIA AND
IRAQ.
AND DURING THE WHOLE MONTH OF
RAMADAN THEY TAKE CARE OF THE
POOR, THEY EITHER GIVE THEM
MONEY, COLLECT FROM THE RICH OR
GIVE THEM FOOT BASKETS, SUGAR,
COOKING OIL.
THIS HAS BEEN THE CASE SINCE
THEY DECLARED A ISLAMIC
CALIPHATE LAST YEAR.
BUT SINCE THEY DO THIS THEY
CARRIED OUT SOME OF THEIR MOST
BRUTAL ACTS DURING RAMADAN.
AT LEAST SHOWING THEM KILLING 16
PEOPLE THEY ACCUSED OF BEING
SPY, BASICALLY THEY PUT THEM
INTO A CAGE AND LOWERED THEM
INTO A POOL UNTIL THEY DROWN.
THEY SENT EXPLOSIVES AROUND THE
NECK OF SOME PEOPLE ALLEGING
THEY ARE SPICE AND THEY BLEW
THEIR HEADS OFF.
THEY ARE DOING THIS.
THEY TRY TO SCARE THE PEOPLE AND
ALSO THEY TRY TO TELL THEM LIKE
WE ARE YOUR PROTECTORS, WE
PROTECT YOU FROM THE IRAQI AND
SYRIAN GOVERNMENT FORCES.
WE PROTECT YOU FROM OTHER
MILITANTS.
THIS HAS BEEN THE CASE.
>> SO IN THIS TIME THERE'S ALSO
THE PRACTICE OF FASTING.
AND YOU'RE REPORTING THAT THEY
ARE EVEN ENFORCING THAT PEOPLE
OBSERVE THE FAST.
>> THAT'S CORRECT.
I MEAN, DURING RAMADAN,
OBSERVANCE, MUSLIMS ABSTAIN FROM
FOOD AND WATER FROM SUNRISE
UNTIL SUNSET.
BUT IF SOMEONE IS CAUGHT UNDER
THE ISLAMIC STATE AREA EATING
DURING DAY YOU COULD BE PUNISHED
FROM SOMETHING LIKE BEING PUT IN
A CAGE FOR A PUBLIC PLACE LIKE A
MARKET FOR A DAY OR EVEN MORE
THAN A DAY.
ALL WHO ARE SICK CANNOT FAST IF
THEY WANT.
BUT THAT'S NOT WHAT I.S.I.S,
WHAT THE ISLAMIC STATE GROUP IS
DOING.
THEY'RE PUNISHING ANYONE, EVEN
OLDER PEOPLE SICK PEOPLE, THEY
DISTAIN ANYONE WHO REFUSES TO
STOP EATING.
>> RAMADAN IS USUALLY A FAIRLY
FESTIVE TIME, PEOPLE BREAK THEIR
FAST BY JOINING WITH OTHER
FAMILIES AND FRIENDS IN THE
EVENING.
>> THAT'S CORRECT.
BEFORE THE ISLAMIC STATE TOOK
OVER WIDE PORTIONS OF THESE
COUNTRIES, PEOPLE HAVE A MEAL BE
IN THE EVENING.
THEY GO OUT AND SMOKE WATER
PIPES, DRINK COFFEE, SMOKING IS
TOTALLY PROHIBITED AND ALSO,
IT'S SURPRISING IF YOU GO TO ANY
MUSLIM COUNTRY IN THE MIDDLE
EAST AND RESIDENTS ARE STILL
WITH PEOPLE, FAMILIES, CHILDREN,
BREAKING THEIR MEAL, THIS IS
PROHIBITED.
SO THE ATMOSPHERE IS IN A WAY
DEPRESSING AND MISERABLE.
>> SO IS ALL OF THIS AN ATTEMPT
TO SHOW THE PEOPLE INSIDE THIS
REGION THAT THEY HAVE THE
ABILITY TO CONTROL OR GOVERN?
>> THAT'S WHAT THEY'RE TRYING TO
SAY AND THEY'RE TRYING TO SHOW
THEY IMPLEMENT A VERY SICK
INTERPRETATION.
THEY CLAIM THIS IS THE ONLY
RIGHT INTERPRETATION, ONLY LIKE
TASK AND WHAT THE OTHERS DOING
IS WRONG.
AGAIN, THEY SIMPLY KILL WHOEVER
SAYS, ANY TIME OF CRITICISM OR
OPPOSITION.
FOR THEM THEY ARE RIGHT AND ALL
THE OTHERS ARE WRONG.
ALL RIGHT, ASSOCIATED PRESS
REPORTER BASSEM MROUE, JOINS US,
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> Sreenivasan: THIS MONDAY AT
10:00 P.M. EASTERN ON PBS, THE
DOCUMENTARY SERIES "POV"
PREMIERES "WEB JUNKIE" ABOUT
INTERNET ADDICTION AS A NATIONAL
HEALTH CRISIS IN CHINA.
HERE'S A PREVIEW THAT GOES
INSIDE BEIJING'S INTERNET
ADDICTION CLINIC.
>> Sreenivasan: FINALLY TONIGHT
THE YOUNGEST WINNER OF THE NOBEL
PEACE PRIZE CELEBRATED HER 18th
BIRTHDAY TODAY BY OPENING A
SCHOOL FOR SYRIAN REFUGEE GIRLS
IN LEBANON.
SHE CALLED ON WORLD LEADERS
TO INVEST IN BOOKS, NOT BULLETS.
AND TOMORROW ON THE NEWSHOUR,
WE'LL HAVE MORE FROM VIENNA ON
A POSSIBLE NUCLEAR DEAL WITH
IRAN.
PLUS THE LATEST ON GREECE.
THAT'S IT FOR PBS NEWSHOUR.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN.
THANKS FOR WATCHING.